# DataStructs_Project5

A kd-tree, or k-dimensional tree, is a binary tree that organizes points in k-dimensional space. This project deals with 2-dimentional space, which is a plane. We will call this tree 2d-tree.
The relationship between the k-dimensional space and a kd-tree enables you to use the tree to find all points within a given range
A 2d-tree generalizes a binary search tree in that it positions each node according to either the x or y coordinate of its data point. The coordinate choice depends on the level at which the node is inserted into the tree. The first point you insert into an empty tree is place into a node that becomes the tree’s root. If the next point to be inserted has an x-coordinate that is less than the x-coordinate of the root, you place the new point into the left child of the root. Otherwise, you place it into the root’s right child. Insertions at the next level – level 3 – compare y-coordinates. Insertions at the level 4 compare x-coordinate, and so on.
For example, let’s insert the points (50, 40), (40, 70), (80, 20), (90, 10), and (60, 30) into an initially empty 2d-tree. The next picture traces the construction of this tree. Part (a) shows the root containing one point (50, 40). To insert (40, 70) into a child of the root, we compare               x-coordinates. Since 40 < 50, the new point goes into the left child of the root. Similarly, since 80 > 50, the point (80, 20) goes into the right child of the root. To insert (90, 10), you begin at the tree’s root and compare x-coordinates. Since 90 > 50, you move to the root’s right child and compare y-coordinates. We find that 10 < 20, so (90, 10) goes into the left child of the last visited node. The final point, (60, 30) is positioned using similar steps.
 The graphical significance of the 2d-tree is illustrated beneath the trees. We begin with a square that contains all of the points in the tree. For example, a 100 x 100 square will contain all 5 points in the example. By passing a vertical line through the x-coordinate of the point in the root, we divide the square into two regions. Any point in the root’s left subtree will lie to the left of this line, while points in the root’s right subtree will lie to the right of this line. Then a horizontal line is drawn through the point (40, 70). All points in this node’s left subtree will lie below this line, while points from the right subtree will lie above this line.

Assignment: Implement a 2d-tree, providing a method to insert a new point and a method to test whether a given point is in the tree in addition to .standard methods from BinaryTreeInterface.
